2008/08/30 (jfn) Simplified the configuration of the build
environment.

See "00README-developers.txt" for details on the new simplified
procedure for seting up the development environment.







2008/08/28 (jfn) Created branch 3.2.x on the Subversion repository.

The 3.2.x branch is intended for maintenance only. No new features
should be added in this branch. Only bug fixes.

svn mkdir -m 'Created repository directory for branches.' \
	svn+ssh://www.pdmfc.com/opt/develop/svnroot/tea/branches

svn cp -m 'Created branch 3.2.x with development tree as of 2007/06/04.' \
        -r 1 \
	svn+ssh://www.pdmfc.com/opt/develop/svnroot/tea/trunk \
	svn+ssh://www.pdmfc.com/opt/develop/svnroot/tea/branches/3.2.x


The 3.2.x branch was created in revision 17.

To create a local copy of the 3.2.x branch:

cd ~/wherever
cvn svn+ssh://www.pdmfc.com/opt/develop/svnroot/tee/branches/3.2.x tea

The above commands will create inside "~/wherever" a directory named
"tea" with the latest contents of the 3.2.x branch.





2001/04/05

In a Tea program run by the "tsh" utility a global variable named
"argv0" is now created right before executing the Tea script
file. This variable contains the path to the script file that is being
executed.





2001/02/17

Tea 2 has been officialy launched. The Tea home page will soon be
updated with the news and a link to the download page.

CVS tag: TEA020000





2001/02/15

Started development on Tea version 2. A new CVS repository was setup
having CVSROOT=:pserver:tdk@red.solsuni.pt:/opt/develop/cvsroot





2001/02/08

Added the "file-make-path" function. (jfn)





2001/01/19

Added the "tea-autoload-package" function.

Tea functions and classes of the TDBC module are now loaded on demand.





2001/01/10

The TeaDoc DTD has the following new elements:

Class
ClassRef
MethodRef
FuncRef

The "teadoc" tool was updated to support these new elements.





2000/12/15

The "and" function now may accept no arguments, as mentioned in the
documentation.

Added the "file-unlink-recursive" function. It removes a directory and
all its contents.





2000/12/10

Added support for variables shared among all the Tea interpreters
running in a JVM. New functions in the "Lang" module:

tea-shared-define
tea-shared-defined?
tea-shared-get
tea-shated-set!


Added support for synchronization between different Tea interpreters
running in different threads. New functions in the "Lang" module:

tea-lock-acquire
tea-lock-release


The Tea site (http://www.devweb.pt/tea) uses these features to
maintain track of the current number of visitors to the site.






2000/11/27

The "TInput copyTo" method can now receive an aditional argument
containing the maximum number of bytes to read from the input stream.

The "TSocket copyTo" method can also receive that aditional argument.


Released the Tea Development Kit version 1.2.2. Major differences from
the previous release:

    <ul>
    <li>The <code>TInput</code> and <code>TSocket</code> classes
    <code>copyTo</code> methods now accept an aditional optional byte
    count argument.</li>
    <li>The utilities provided with the TDK (tsh, teadoc) have been
    moved to a single bin directory (<code>apps/bin</code>).</li>
    </ul>





2000/11/18

bug-0012 (copyTo pending flush) solved.





2000/11/17

Released the Tea Development Kit version 1.2.1. Major differences from
the previous release:

    <ul>
    <li>Solved vicious bug that prevented the correct flush of
    <code>TOutput</code> streams in some particular
    circumstances. This also affected <code>TSocket</code>.</li>
    <li>New reflection functions in the TOS module
    (<code>class-of</code>, <code>class-base-of</code>,
    <code>class-is-a</code>, <code>class-get-name</code>).</li>
    <li>Runtime error messages envolving TOS classes are now much more
    informative.</li>
    </ul>






2000/11/15

All classes of the Tea language now have a name. Error messages
envolving classes are now much more clear.

Added new functions in the TOS module:

class-of
class-base-of
class-is-a
class-get-name





2000/11/11

Released the Tea Development Kit 1.2.0.  Major differences from
the previous release:

    <ul>
    <li>Added support for server side sockets
    (<code>TServerSocket</code>).</li>
    <li>The Tea parser now supports the same escape sequences as the
    Java language.</li>
    <li>New <code>str-unescape</code> function for transforming a
    string containing Tea escape sequences.</li>
    </ul>





2000/11/09

Tea error messages in a Tea program about unknown methods now refer
the name of the TOS class invoved.

Consider the following piece of code:

class x () ; [new x] abc

When running this code the error message would have been:

class 'STOSClass' has no method 'abc'

Now it is the following:

class 'x' has no method 'abc'





2000/11/08

Added the "str-unescape" function ("String" module).

Added the class "TServerSocket" ("Net" module) for using TCP/IP server
sockets.





2000/11/05

The following escape sequences are now supported by the Tea compiler:

       \b backspace
       \f form feed
       \n newline
       \r carriage return
       \t horizontal tab
       \" double quote
       \' single quote
       \\ backslash
       \xxx character, in octal (000-377)
       \uxxxx Unicode character, in hexadecimal (0000-FFFF)





2000/10/05

Added the "file-size" function ("IO" module).





2000/10/03

Added support for methods with a variable number of arguments.

Added runtime support to byte arrays.

The "TInput copyTo" now only requires the object received as argument
to have a method named "write" that takes a byte array as argument.

Created new classes "TSocketPlain", "TSocket" for network programming.





2000/10/02

The "teadoc" tool now generates HTML files with names that can be read
in Windows systems. The "*" character in file names is now replaced
with an apropriate encoding.

The Tea parser now correctly handles the "\" just before the end of a
line in systems where the EOL sequence is "\r\n".





2000/09/28

The implementation of TOS classes "TInput", "TFileInput" now only uses
"InputStream". This was done in order to simplify reading lines and
binary data from the same file. A line is taken as a sequence of
characters ended by "\n" or "\r\n".

The "TInput" method has a new "copyTo" method. This method is used to
copy the remaining contents of the "TInput" into a "TOutput".





2000/09/27

The Tango widgets now support the attribute concept. Each type of
widget has its own set of attributes. An attribute relates to some
particular behaviour of the widget.





2000/09/24

The TeaDoc DTD now has three new elements: "Enumeration", "EnumLabel",
"EnumDescription". These are used to produce itemized descriptions,
where each item has a label.





2000/09/05

Released version tea-1.1.5. CVS tag: "TEA010105".





2000/06/18

The documents generated by the TeaDoc tool now display information on
the class hierarchy. (req-0050)





2000/06/04

Implemented TEA-REQ-0051 Procom SProcomMessage::sendWithTimeout. (jpsl)





2000/05/13

Implemented req-0045 (Procom escape of \n and \r). (jpsl)



2000/03/28

Added the "url-encode" function. (jfn)





2000/03/12

Added the "html-encode" function. (jfn)





2000/03/12

Added the "clear", "push" and "pop" methods to the "TVector"
class. (jfn)

Added the "getElements" method to the "THashtable" class. (jfn)

When invoking the "TXmlParser parse" method, errors detected while
parsing the XML document are now caught and generate a Tea runtime
error. (jfn)





2000/02/26

Added a new function: "error". It just generates a runtime error. (jfn)

Added a new function: "not-same?". Checks if two objects are not the
same. (jfn)





2000/02/16

The "THashtable get" method now may receive more than one
argument. When that happens it returns a list with the values
associated with each of the keys passed as argument.





2000/02/07

Added the "map-apply" function to the "Lang" module. (jfn)





2000/01/16

Added the "getElements" method to the "TVector" class (req-0034). (jfn)





2000/01/02

Added the "printf" method to the "TOutput" class (req-0023). (jfn)





1999/11/20

The "import" Tea function was reimplemented to be more performant
(req-0003). (jfn)





1999/11/15

The "write", "writeln" methods of the "TOutput" class now accept a
variable number of arguments. The arguments can either be strings or
numeric objects. (req-0024). (jfn)





1999/11/14

New package for XML processing (req-0022). (jfn)





1999/11/07

Tea functions using regular expressions were reimplemented using the
GNU Java regex library (gnu.regexp-1.0.8). This was necessary since
the previouls used regex library (OROMatcher-1.0.5) was no longer
being supported, no sources were available and gcj was unable to
compile the OROMatcher class files. (req-0021). (jfn)





1999/10/16

Added support for autoloading of Tea functions and TOS classes
implemented in native code (req-0009). (jfn)

Corrected bug (bug-0001) that made the Tea interpreter thrown a Java
exception everytime a symbol referencing a variable containg a TOS
object was used as argument zero. (jfn)





1999/09/24

Started the "history" file. (jfn)

Added function "load-class" to instantiate TOS class objects
implemented in Java (req-0007). (jfn)

The "tea-autoload.tea" module at start up now only loads the minimal
set of Tea functions and TOS classes needed to perform its duties
(req-0008). (jfn)

